IMPORTANT 
READ CAREFULLY BEFORE INSTALLING OR USING THIS PRODUCT 



THIS PRODUCT CONTAINS THE TECTIA(R) SSH CLIENT COMPUTER SOFTWARE 
APPLICATIONS AND RELATED DOCUMENTATION AND OTHER PROPRIETARY MATERIAL 
(COLLECTIVELY, THE "SOFTWARE"), THE USE OF WHICH IS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS OF 
THIS END-USER LICENSE AGREEMENT ("AGREEMENT"). TERM "SOFTWARE", AS USED IN 
THIS AGREEMENT, DOES NOT MEAN POSSIBLE OPEN SOURCE COMPONENTS. INSTALLATION 
OR USE OF THE SOFTWARE CONSTITUTES YOUR AND YOUR COMPANY'S ASSENT TO AND 
ACCEPTANCE OF ALL OF THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT AND YOUR COMPANY TO BE 
BOUND BY AND BECOME A PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH ALL 
OF THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT, YOU MUST NOT INSTALL THE SOFTWARE AND YOU 
MUST RETURN THE SOFTWARE AND ALL MANUALS AND DOCUMENTATION TO SSH 
COMMUNICATIONS SECURITY CORPORATION ("LICENSOR") OR LICENSOR'S RESPECTIVE 
DISTRIBUTOR FOR A REFUND WITHIN TEN (10) DAYS OF RECEIPT OF THE PRODUCTS. 
WRITTEN APPROVAL IS NOT A PREREQUISITE TO THE VALIDITY OR ENFORCEABILITY OF 
THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU HAVE ORDERED THE SOFTWARE, LICENSOR'S ACCEPTANCE OF 
YOUR PURCHASE ORDER IS EXPRESSLY CONDITIONAL ON YOUR ASSENT TO THESE TERMS 
TO THE EXCLUSION OF ALL OTHER TERMS (EXCEPT NON-PREPRINTED TERMS IN WRITING 
SIGNED BY BOTH PARTIES); IF THESE TERMS ARE CONSIDERED AN OFFER BY LICENSOR, 
ACCEPTANCE IS EXPRESSLY LIMITED TO THESE TERMS. 

End-User License Agreement 

This End-User License Agreement constitutes the agreement between SSH 
Communications Security Corporation ("Licensor") and the individual or legal 
entity who has ordered the products which are the subject of this Agreement 
("You") for the license of the Software. 

1. GRANT OF LICENSE 

Licensor hereby grants to You a non-transferable, non-exclusive, 
non-sublicensable license to install and use the Software on the number of 
hardware based computers, virtual machines within hardware based computers, 
or instances within a cloud infrastructure for which You have paid the 
applicable license fees. 

You shall use the licenses solely for your business operations and the use 
is subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement. For 
avoidance of doubt, one license of the Software authorizes You to install 
and use a single instance of the Software on a hardware based computer or a 
virtual machine within hardware based computer. In virtualized or shared 
desktop environments and/or infrastructures, one license is required for 
each concurrent user using the Software on an installed hardware or virtual 
computer.

The licenses granted to You hereunder shall be in force, (a) for 
subscriptions: as long as the subscriptions and the payment responsibility 
thereof is in force or (b) for perpetual licenses: without time limit, also 
after this agreement has ended. 

2. OWNERSHIP 

Licensor and/or its licensors retains all ownership, title and intellectual 
property rights with respect to the Software and all enhancements, fixes, 
corrections, modifications, copies and portions thereof, whether or not 
incorporated into or with other software. Licensor and/or its licensors 
reserve all rights not expressly granted to You herein. Any license granted 
by Licensor under this Agreement is not a sale of the Software or any 
portion or copy thereof. This Agreement does not convey title or ownership, 
but instead gives You only the limited rights of use as set forth in this 
Agreement. The Software contains valuable trade secrets of Licensor and its 
licensors. All worldwide ownership of and all rights, title and interests in 
and to the Software, and all copies and portions of the Software, including 
without limitation, all intellectual property rights therein and thereto, 
are and shall remain exclusively with Licensor. The Software is protected, 
among other ways, by the copyright laws of the United States of America, the 
European Union and international copyright treaties. All rights not 
expressly granted herein are retained by Licensor and its licensors. You 
agree that any copies of the Software will contain the same proprietary 
notices which appear on and in the Software. The Software may contain Open 
Source components that are licensed under their respective terms. Licensor 
shall provide a list of Open Source Licenses for a particular version of the 
Software in the Software user documentation. 

3. USE RESTRICTIONS 

You have no right to receive, use or examine any source code or design 
documentation relating to the Software. 

You shall not nor allow any third party to: 

(i) use the Software except in accordance with the terms of this Agreement; 

(ii) modify, translate, reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble or 
otherwise attempt to reconstruct or discover the source code from the 
binaries of the Software, except to the extent applicable laws specifically 
prohibit such restriction; 

(iii) modify, translate, adapt, alter the Software or create derivative 
works from the Software (e.g. incorporating the Software in a commercial 
product or service without a proper license); 

(iv) copy the Software or any portion thereof (except for one emergency or 
back-up copy per license that You have paid for); 

(v) sell, assign, rent, lease, sublicense, lend, convey, distribute or 
otherwise transfer rights to the Software or to this Agreement or use or 
allow others to use the Software for the benefit of third parties; 

(vi) load or use any portion of the Software (whether or not modified or 
incorporated into or with other software) on or with any machine or system 
other than the computers for which You have paid the applicable license 
fees; 

(vii) remove any product identification, copyright, proprietary notices or 
labels from the Software; or 

(viii) use any of Licensor's trademarks in any manner other than their 
presence within Your copy of the Software without prior written permission 
of Licensor; 

(ix) in virtualized desktop environments and/or infrastructures, use each 
copy of the Software simultaneously by more than one person unless You have 
received Licensor's prior written consent and paid Licensor the applicable 
fees for any such usage of the Software; 

(x) if You use Open Source software in conjunction with the Software, you 
must ensure that Your use does not; a) create, or purport to create, 
obligations of Licensor and/or its licensors with respect to the Software; 
or b) grant, or purport to grant, to any third party any rights to or 
immunities under Licensor's and/or its licensors' intellectual property or 
proprietary rights in the Software. You also may not combine the Software 
with programs licensed under the GNU General Public License ("GPL") in any 
manner that could cause, or could be interpreted or asserted to cause, the 
Software or any parts thereto to become subject to the terms of the GPL. 
"Open Source" software used herein shall mean software that is available 
without charge for use, modifications and distribution and is often licensed 
under terms that require the user to make the user's modifications to the 
Open Source software or any software that the user 'combines' with the Open 
Source software freely available in source code; or c) violate the 
respective Open Source licenses and related terms and conditions. 

(xi) use the Software to perform any unauthorized transfer of information 
(e.g. transfer of files in violation of a copyright) or for any illegal 
purpose; 

(xii) transfer any rights under this Agreement, including, but not limited 
to, to any other company or division; 

(xiii) incorporate, integrate or otherwise include the Software with any 
other software or documentation; 

(xiv) use the Software for the business needs of another person or entity. 

Any and all copies made by You as permitted hereunder must contain all of 
the original Software's copyright, trademark and other proprietary notices 
and marks. 

4. TEMPORARY EVALUATION 

If You would like to use the Software for a limited time solely for internal 
evaluation purposes before paying the applicable license fee(s) for the 
license granted under Section 1, You may use the Software subject to this 
Agreement, and the additional terms and use restrictions set forth on 
Schedule A hereto (the "Evaluation License"). 

5. FEES 

You must pay Licensor the license fee(s) and the support service fee(s) for 
the Software in the amount(s) and in the manner set forth in Licensor's 
respective invoices. 

6. SUPPORT SERVICES 

Provided that You are not using the Software under an Evaluation License and 
that You have paid in full the license fee(s) for the Software and that You 
have paid in full the support service fee(s) for the Software, You will 
receive new releases of Software as Licensor, in its sole discretion, 
releases them from time to time and technical support for certain time 
periods set by Licensor in its sole discretion. Unless the Parties have 
otherwise agreed in writing and signed by both Parties, such Support 
Services shall be provided according to the SSH Standard Support Service 
Terms and Conditions, which can be found online at: 
http://www.ssh.com/legal/terms 

The content of different levels of SSH Support Services and general 
information about SSH Support can be found online at: 
http://www.ssh.com/services/technical-support 
For more detailed description of scopes for SSH Support Services, please 
contact the Licensor. 

Any supplemental Software code provided to you as part of the Support 
Services shall be considered part of the Software and subject to the terms 
and conditions of this Agreement. 

7. CONFIDENTIALITY 

The Software and any license authorization codes are confidential and 
proprietary information of Licensor. You agree to take all necessary steps 
to protect the Software and any license authorization codes, if any, from 
unauthorized disclosure or use. You agree that You will not disclose the 
Software, in source code or object code form, to any third party. 

8. WARRANTY 

YOU ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS," WITHOUT WARRANTY OF 
ANY KIND. LICENSOR EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY 
APPLICABLE LAW, ALL WARRANTIES, WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, 
INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, OF 
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY 
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, AND ANY WARRANTY THAT MAY ARISE BY REASON OF 
TRADE USAGE, CUSTOM OR COURSE OF DEALING. LICENSOR DOES NOT WARRANT THAT THE 
SOFTWARE WILL BE OR ERROR-FREE OR THAT ITS USE WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED NOR 
THAT THE SOFTWARE WILL OPERATE WITH ANY HARDWARE AND/OR OTHER SOFTWARE OR 
REGARDING THE USE, OR THE RESULTS OF THE USE, OF THE SOFTWARE OR 
DOCUMENTATION IN TERMS OF CORRECTNESS, ACCURACY, RELIABILITY OR OTHERWISE. 

9. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY 

THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO RESULTS AND PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE IS ASSUMED BY 
YOU. ANY LIABILITY OF LICENSOR WITH RESPECT TO THE SOFTWARE, THE PERFORMANCE 
THEREOF OR DEFECTS THEREIN, OR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT, UNDER ANY WARRANTY, 
NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY OR OTHER LEGAL THEORY SHALL BE LIMITED 
EXCLUSIVELY TO PRODUCT REPLACEMENT OR REPAIR., OR IF REPLACEMENT OR REPAIR 
IS INADEQUATE AS A REMEDY OR IN LICENSOR'S SOLE OPINION, IMPRACTICAL, TO A 
REFUND OF THE ACTUAL AMOUNT PAID BY YOU FOR THE SOFTWARE OR SERVICES GIVING 
RISE TO THE CLAIM. 

10. DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES 

UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES WILL LICENSOR OR ITS LICENSORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY 
SPECIAL, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, EXEMPLARY OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY 
KIND OR NATURE WHATSOEVER, WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, WARRANTY, TORT 
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), STRICT LIABILITY OR OTHERWISE, ARISING OUT OF OR IN 
ANY WAY RELATED TO THE SOFTWARE, THIS AGREEMENT, WHETHER DUE TO A BREACH OF 
LICENSOR'S OBLIGATIONS HEREUNDER OR OTHERWISE, EVEN IF LICENSOR OR ITS 
LICENSORS HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE OR IF SUCH 
DAMAGE COULD HAVE BEEN REASONABLY FORESEEN, AND NOTWITHSTANDING ANY FAILURE 
OF ESSENTIAL PURPOSE OF ANY EXCLUSIVE REMEDY PROVIDED IN THIS AGREEMENT. 
SUCH LIMITATION ON DAMAGES INCLUDES, BUT IS NOT LIMITED TO, DAMAGES FOR LOSS 
OF GOODWILL, BUSINESS, REVENUE, OR SAVINGS, LOST PROFITS, LOSS OF DATA OR 
SOFTWARE, WORK STOPPAGE, COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION OR IMPAIRMENT OF 
OTHER GOODS. IN NO EVENT WILL LICENSOR OR ITS LICENSORS BE LIABLE FOR THE 
COSTS OF PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE SOFTWARE OR SERVICES. 

YOU ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THIS SOFTWARE IS NOT DESIGNED OR LICENSED FOR USE IN 
ON-LINE EQUIPMENT IN HAZARDOUS ENVIRONMENTS SUCH AS OPERATION OF NUCLEAR 
FACILITIES, AIRCRAFT NAVIGATION OR CONTROL, OR LIFE-CRITICAL APPLICATIONS. 
LICENSOR EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY RESULTING FROM USE OF THE 
SOFTWARE IN ANY SUCH ON-LINE EQUIPMENT IN HAZARDOUS ENVIRONMENTS AND ACCEPTS 
NO LIABILITY IN RESPECT OF ANY ACTIONS OR CLAIMS BASED ON THE USE OF THE 
SOFTWARE IN ANY SUCH ON-LINE EQUIPMENT IN HAZARDOUS ENVIRONMENTS BY YOU. FOR 
PURPOSES OF THIS PARAGRAPH, THE TERM "LIFE-CRITICAL APPLICATION" MEANS AN 
APPLICATION IN WHICH THE FUNCTIONING OR MALFUNCTIONING OF THE SOFTWARE MAY 
RESULT DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY IN PHYSICAL INJURY OR LOSS OF HUMAN LIFE. 

11. SOFTWARE AND SUPPORT SERVICES CHANGES 

At any time during the term of this Agreement, the Licensor may: (a) 
implement changes in, or modify the Software, including documentation; (b) 
discontinue the manufacture of the Software and/or providing related Support 
Services. If the Licensor discontinues the manufacture of the Software 
and/or providing Support Services, then the Licensor shall make all 
reasonable efforts to give notice at least one hundred and eighty (180) 
calendar days prior to intended date of discontinuation. 

12. TERMINATION 

This Agreement will terminate immediately and automatically without notice 
if You breach any provision in this Agreement. Upon termination You will 
remove all copies of the Software or any part of the Software from any and 
all computer storage devices and destroy the Software. At Licensor's 
request, You or your authorized signatory will certify in writing to 
Licensor that all complete and partial copies of the Software have been 
destroyed and that none remain in your possession or under your control. 
Except for the provisions entitled "Grant of License" and "Support 
Services", the provisions of this Agreement will survive termination. 
Termination is not an exclusive remedy, and all other remedies available to 
Licensor under this Agreement or at law or equity shall be available to 
Licensor whether or not this Agreement is terminated. 

13. U.S. GOVERNMENT RIGHTS 

If You are, or if You use the Software by or on behalf for any unit or 
agency of the United States Government, this provision applies. The Software 
is "commercial computer software" as that term is used and discussed in the 
Federal Acquisition Regulation (the "FAR 12.212(a)) and in any successor 
regulations. Licensor represents that the Software was developed entirely at 
private expense, that no part of the Software was first produced in the 
performance of a Government contract, and that no part of the Software is in 
the public domain. 

14. RESTRICTED RIGHTS 

Use, duplication, or disclosure by the U.S. Government is subject to 
restrictions set forth in this Agreement. Manufacturer is SSH Communications 
Security Corporation, Kornetintie 3, FI-00380 Helsinki, Finland. 

15. EXPORT LAW 

You acknowledge and agree that the Software may be subject to restrictions 
and controls, such as but not limited to those, imposed by the European 
Union and/or the United States of America export control laws and 
regulations. You agree and certify that neither the Software nor any direct 
product thereof is being or will be acquired, shipped, transferred, or 
re-exported, directly or indirectly, into any country, except pursuant to an 
export control license, issued by the appropriate authority, or will be used 
for any purpose prohibited by the same. By using the Software, You are 
acknowledging and agreeing to the foregoing, and You are representing and 
warranting that You will comply with all of the European Union and the 
United States of America and other applicable country laws and regulations 
when either exporting or re-exporting or importing the Software or any 
underlying information technology. Further, You represent and warrant that 
You are not a national of Cuba, Iran, Iraq, Libya, North Korea, Sudan, Syria 
or any other country subject to trade sanctions or a party listed in the 
U.S. Table of Denial Orders or U.S. Treasury Department's list of Specially 
Designated Nationals or any similar lists published by the relevant national 
authorities. 

16. CONTROLLING LAW, VENUE AND SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES 

If you acquired the Software in the United States, this Agreement shall be 
interpreted and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New 
York, without regard to conflicts of law principles. 

If you acquired the Software outside the United States, this Agreement shall 
be interpreted and construed in accordance with the local laws, without 
regard to conflicts of law principles. 

Further, the application of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for 
the International Sale of Goods is always expressly excluded and disclaimed. 

If you acquired the Software in the United States, any dispute, controversy 
or claim arising out of, relating to or in connection with this Agreement, 
or the breach, termination or validity hereof or thereof, shall be 
determined by the American Arbitration Association ("AAA") in accordance 
with the AAA's Commercial Arbitration Rules ("the AAA Rules"). The number of 
arbitrators shall be three, unless otherwise agreed by the Parties. The 
place of arbitration shall be New York, State of New York. The language of 
the arbitration shall be English. In accordance with the AAA Rules, the 
arbitrators shall be entitled to award interim measures of relief, including 
but not limited to injunctive relief and measures for the protection or 
conservation of property. The arbitrators shall have the power to order an 
award of damages and to award injunctive relief. The prevailing party in the 
arbitration shall recover its costs of arbitration, including but not 
limited to its reasonable attorneys' fees. Either party shall have the right 
to file an action in an applicable Court of the State of New York for the 
sole purpose of enforcing the arbitration award. 

If you acquired the Software outside the United States, any dispute, 
controversy or claim arising out of, relating to or in connection with this 
Agreement, or the breach, termination or validity hereof or thereof, shall 
be finally settled under the Rules of Arbitration of the International 
Chamber of Commerce by one (1) arbitrator appointed in accordance with the 
said Rules. The place of arbitration shall be Helsinki, Finland. All 
proceedings shall be conducted in the English language. 

Notwithstanding the above provisions of this section, Licensor shall have 
the right to collect amounts owed by You in any court having jurisdiction 
over You. 

17. OPEN SOURCE COMPONENTS 

"Open Source Component" means additional separate components that might be 
distributed along with the Software or as part of it, each licensed to You 
under its own applicable license terms and conditions. 

Notwithstanding the license grant set forth in Section 1, You acknowledge 
that certain components of the Software may be Open Source Components. 
Licensor shall provide a list of Open Source Licenses for a particular 
version of the Software in the Software user documentation. To the extent 
required by the licenses covering Open Source Components, the terms of such 
licenses will apply in lieu of the terms of this Agreement. To the extent 
the terms of the licenses applicable to Open Source Components prohibit any 
of the restrictions in this Agreement with respect to such Open Source 
Component, such restrictions will not apply to such Open Source Component. 
To the extent the terms of the licenses applicable to Open Source Components 
require Licensor to make an offer to provide source code of Open Source 
Component in connection with the Product, such offer is hereby made. YOU 
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT LICENSOR IS NOT THE AUTHOR, OWNER OR LICENSOR OF ANY OPEN 
SOURCE COMPONENT, AND THAT LICENSOR MAKES NO WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS, 
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AS TO THE QUALITY, CAPABILITIES, OPERATIONS, PERFORMANCE 
OR SUITABILITY OF ANY OPEN SOURCE COMPONENT. 

18. MISCELLANEOUS 

If any provision hereof shall be held illegal, invalid or unenforceable, in 
whole or in part, such provision shall be modified to the minimum extent 
necessary to make it legal, valid and enforceable, and the legality, 
validity and enforceability of all other provisions of this Agreement shall 
not be affected thereby. 

No delay or failure by either party to exercise or enforce at any time any 
right or provision hereof shall be considered a waiver thereof or of such 
party's right thereafter to exercise or enforce each and every right and 
provision of this Agreement. 

This Agreement will bind and inure to the benefit of each party's permitted 
successors and assigns. You may not assign this Agreement in whole or in 
part, without Licensor's prior written consent. Any attempt to assign this 
Agreement without such consent will be null and void. 

This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement and understanding between You 
and Licensor relating to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior 
oral and written and all contemporaneous oral negotiations, commitments and 
understandings of the parties, if any. This Agreement sets forth Licensor's 
entire liability and Your exclusive remedy with respect to the Software 

SCHEDULE A 

TEMPORARY EVALUATION ATTACHMENT 

This Schedule A to the above-referenced Agreement is incorporated into the 
Agreement, and limits the license granted under the Agreement with respect 
to the Software. 

The Software is provided only for, and the license is granted for the sole 
purpose of Your internal evaluation of the Software and not for any 
productive or commercial use. You will make no other use of the Software or 
any portion thereof, whether or not incorporated into or with any other 
software. 

Unless earlier terminated as provided in the Agreement, the license granted 
hereunder will terminate 45 days from the delivery of the Software to You 
(the "Evaluation Period"). 

Any use of the Software beyond the Evaluation Period requires payment of the 
applicable license fee(s). You agree that on or before the end of the 
Evaluation Period, You will either pay the applicable end-user list price or 
separately agreed license fee(s) with respect to the Software or immediately 
cease using the Software and destroy all copies that the You may have in 
your possession or control, and remove the Software from your computers. 

In addition to termination and any other remedies Licensor may have or 
exercise, if You breach the terms of this Schedule A or any other portion of 
the Agreement, You shall promptly pay to Licensor its end-user list price or 
license fee(s) for each unauthorized use of the Software. 

YOU ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE LICENSOR 
PROVIDES NO WARRANTY WHATSOEVER, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, WITH RESPECT TO THE 
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OF FUNCTIONING THEREOF (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION 
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND 
NON-INFRINGEMENT) AND WILL HAVE NO LIABILITY WHATSOEVER IN CONNECTION WITH 
THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR FUNCTIONING THEREOF OR LOSS OF DATA RESULTING 
THEREFROM. 

This Schedule A is an addition to the Agreement and does not change or 
supersede any term of the Agreement except to the extent unambiguously 
inconsistent therewith. 

