.TH scpg3 1 "16 June 2017"  
.SH NAME
scpg3 \- Secure Shell file copy client - Generation 3
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
\fBscpg3\fR \kx
.if (\nxu > (\n(.lu / 2)) .nr x (\n(.lu / 5)
'in \n(.iu+\nxu
[\fBoptions\fR]\&...
.br
[\fBsrc_profile\fR: | 
[\fBuser@\fR]
\fBsrc_host\fR 
[\fB#port\fR]:
] \fBsrc_file\fR \&...
.br
[\fBdst_profile\fR: | 
[\fBuser@\fR]
\fBdst_host\fR 
[\fB#port\fR]:
] \fBdst_file_or_dir\fR 
'in \n(.iu-\nxu
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
scpg3 is used to 
securely copy files over the network. scpg3 launches 
ssh\-broker\-g3 to provide a secure transport using the 
Secure Shell version 2 protocol.
ssh\-broker\-g3 will ask for passwords or passphrases if they 
are needed for authentication. scpg3 uses the configuration 
specified in the \fBssh\-broker\-config.xml\fR file. 
.PP
Copies between two remote hosts are permitted. The remote host(s) must 
be running a Secure Shell version 2 server with the sftp\-server 
(or sft\-server\-g3) subsystem enabled. Tectia Server has 
sft\-server\-g3 enabled by default.
.PP
Any filename may contain a host, user, and port specification to 
indicate that the file is to be copied to or from that host 
(\fIuser@\fR\fIhost\fR\fI#port\fR).
If no user name is given, the local user name is assumed.
If no port is given, the default Secure Shell port 22 is assumed. 
Alternatively, a connection profile defined in the \fBssh\-broker\-config.xml\fR 
file (\fIprofile\fR) can be given.
.RS 
\fBNote\fR
.PP
When entering a connection profile in the scpg3 
command, note that Tectia Client/Server deduces the meaning of the argument 
differently depending on its format. If there is an \fB@\fR sign in the 
given attribute value, Tectia Client/Server always interprets it to be 
\fB<username@hostname>\fR, i.e. not a profile.
.PP
Also, if there are dots in a profile name (for example 
\fBhost.x.example.com\fR, the dots need to be escaped on command 
line.
Enter \fBhost\\.x\\.example\\.com\fR, instead. 
Otherwise the profile name is taken as a host name and the current Windows 
user name is used for logging in.
.RE
.PP
The \fIhost\fR parameter can optionally be 
enclosed in square brackets ([]) to allow the use of 
semicolons. The \fIfile\fR argument can contain simple 
wildcards: asterisk (*) for any number of any characters, and 
question mark (?) for any one character.
.PP
For information on special characters in file names, see 
\fIFilename Support\fR below.
.SH OPTIONS
The following command-line parameters can be used to further specify 
the scpg3 options.
.TP 
\fB\-4\fR
Defines that all connection-related DNS resolutions will be resolved as 
an IPv4 address.
.TP 
\fB\-6\fR
Defines that all connection-related DNS resolutions will be resolved as 
an IPv6 address.
.TP 
\fB\-a\fR\fIarg\fR
Transfers files using the ASCII mode, that is, newlines will be 
converted on the fly. For transfers between Tectia on z/OS and other hosts, 
this also enables automatic ASCII-EBCDIC conversions. See the sftpg3
ascii command
on the \fBsftpg3\fR(1) man page.

If the server does not advertise the newline convention, and you are not using a
host profile that specifies its host type, you can give scpg3 a hint
by giving an argument after \fB\-a\fR. The default is to set the destination
newline convention, but you can specify either one by prefixing the argument with
\fBsrc:\fR or \fBdest:\fR for source or destination convention,
respectively. The available conventions are \fBdos\fR, \fBunix\fR,
and \fBmac\fR, using \fB\\r\\n\fR, \fB\\n\fR, and
\fB\\r\fR as newlines, respectively. Note that there is no space between the
\fB\-a\fR and its argument. An example is shown below:

.nf
$ scpg3 \-asrc:unix \-adest:dos src_host:src_file dest_host:dest_file
.fi

To force the newline conventions, use these values: 
\fBforce\-dos\fR, \fBforce\-unix\fR, and 
\fBforce\-mac\fR. These settings force the newline mode 
irrespective of what the remote SSH server suggests to the SCP client.
.TP 
\fB\-B, \-\-batch\-mode\fR
Uses batch mode. Fails authentication if it requires user interaction 
on the terminal.

Using batch mode requires that you have previously saved the server 
host key on the client and set up a non-interactive method for user 
authentication (for example, host-based authentication or public-key 
authentication without a passphrase).
.TP 
\fB\-b \fR\fIbuffer_size_bytes\fR
Defines the maximum buffer size for one SFTP protocol read or write request 
(default: \fI32768\fR bytes).

The maximum number of SFTP protocol read or write requests sent in parallel within
the transfer of a single file can be specified with the 
\fB\-N\fR option.

Note that when streaming (see 
\fB\-\-streaming\fR)
is used (as it is by default when transferring files larger than
\fIbuffer_size_bytes\fR to/from Tectia Server), this option is not used
for defining buffer sizes.
.TP 
\fB\-C\fR
Disables compression from the current connection.
.TP 
\fB+C\fR
Enables zlib compression for this particular connection.
.TP 
\fB\-c, \-\-ciphers=\fR\fILIST\fR
Sets the allowed ciphers to be offered to the server. List the cipher 
names in a comma-separated list. For example:

.nf
\-\-ciphers seed\-cbc@ssh.com,aes256\-cbc
.fi

Enter \fBhelp\fR as the value to view the currently supported 
cipher names.
.TP 
\fB\-D, \-\-debug=\fR\fILEVEL\fR
Sets the debug level. \fILEVEL\fR is a number 
from 0 to 99, where 99 specifies that all debug information should be 
displayed. This should be the first argument on the command line.
.RS 
\fBNote\fR

The debug level can be set only when the 
scpg3 command starts the Connection Broker. This 
option has no effect in the command if the Connection Broker is already running.
.RE
.TP 
\fB\-d\fR
Forces target to be a directory.
.TP 
\fB\-I, \-\-interactive\fR
Prompts whether to overwrite an existing destination file (does not 
work with \fB\-B\fR).
.TP 
\fB\-i \fR\fIFILE\fR
Defines that private keys defined in the identification file are used 
for public-key authentication.
.TP 
\fB\-K, \-\-identity\-key\-file=\fR\fIFILE\fR 
Defines that the given key file of a private key or certificate is 
used in user authentication. The path to the key file is given in the 
command.

If the file is a private key, it will be read and compared to the keys 
already known by the Connection Broker key store. If the key is not known, it will be 
decoded and added to the key store temporarily. If the file is a certificate 
and Connection Broker knows a matching private key, it will be used. Both the 
certificate and the private key can be given using multiple 
\fB\-K\fR options on command line.
.TP 
\fB\-N \fR\fImax_requests\fR
Defines the maximum number of SFTP protocol read or write requests sent in parallel
(default: 10).

The size of the buffer used in each read or write request can be specified with the
\fB\-b\fR
option.

Note that this value applies within the transfer of a single file; it cannot be
used to define the number of files sent in parallel.

When streaming (see 
\fB\-\-streaming\fR) is used (as
it is by default when transferring files larger than
\fIbuffer_size_bytes\fR specified with the \fB\-b\fR
option to/from Tectia Server), this option is not used.
.TP 
\fB\-O, \-\-offset=\fR \fBr\fR \fB<offset>\fR | \fBw\fR \fB<offset>\fR | \fBl\fR \fB<length>\fR | \fBt\fR \fB<length>\fR 
Sets offset. Offset 
\fBr\fR\fI<offset>\fR specifies the 
start offset in the source file. Offset 
\fBw\fR\fI<offset>\fR specifies the 
start offset in the destination file. Length 
\fBl\fR\fI<length>\fR specifies the 
amount of data to be copied. Truncate length 
\fBt\fR\fI<length>\fR, if given, 
specifies the length to which the destination file is truncated or expanded 
after the file data has been copied.
.TP 
\fB\-p\fR
Preserves the file permissions and the timestamps when both the 
source and the destination are on Unix file systems (including z/OS USS). 
Preserves the timestamps but not the file permissions, if either one, the 
source or the destination is on Windows. If the destination is on z/OS 
MVS, none will be preserved. 
.TP 
\fB\-P \fR\fIport\fR
Connects to this Secure Shell port on the remote machine (default: \fI22\fR).
.TP 
\fB\-Q\fR
Does not show progress indicator. The effect of this option is the 
same as using \fB\-\-progress\-display=no\fR.

Do not use this option together with parameter 
\fB\-\-statistics\fR.
.TP 
\fB\-q\fR
Uses quiet mode (only fatal errors are shown).
This option overrides the \fBquiet\-mode\fR setting made in the 
Connection Broker configuration file.
.TP 
\fB\-r\fR
Recurses subdirectories.
.TP 
\fB\-u, \-\-unlink\-source\fR
Removes source files after copying (file move).
.TP 
\fB\-v, \-\-verbose\fR
Uses verbose mode (equal to \fB\-D 2\fR).
.TP 
\fB\-W, \-\-whole\-file\fR
Does not try incremental checks. By default (if this option is not 
given), incremental checks are tried. This option can only be used together 
with the \fB\-\-checksum\fR option.
.TP 
\fB\-\-aa, \-\-allowed\-authentications=\fR\fIMETHODS\fR 
Defines the only allowed methods that can be used in user 
authentication. List the methods in a comma-separated list. For example:

.nf
\-\-allowed\-authentications keyboard\-interactive,password
.fi

Enter \fBhelp\fR as the value to view the currently supported 
authentication methods.
.TP 
\fB\-\-append\fR
Appends data to the end of the destination file.
.TP 
\fB\-\-binary\fR
Uses binary transfer mode. If the server is Tectia Server for IBM z/OS, the server is 
requested not to perform ASCII to EBCDIC conversion, and the file is 
transferred using the Stream format. You can use the \fB\-\-src\-site\fR 
and \fB\-\-dst\-site\fR options to change the values.
.TP 
\fB\-\-checkpoint=b \fR\fI<bytes>\fR
Byte interval between checkpoint updates (default: 10 MB).
This option can only be used when \fB\-\-checksum=checkpoint\fR.
.TP 
\fB\-\-checkpoint=s \fR\fI<seconds>\fR
Time interval between checkpoint updates (default: 
\fI10\fR seconds). This option can only be used when 
\fB\-\-checksum=checkpoint\fR.
.TP 
\fB\-\-checksum\fR [ \fB=yes\fR | \fBno\fR | \fBmd5\fR | \fBsha1\fR | \fBmd5\-force\fR | \fBsha1\-force\fR | \fBcheckpoint\fR ]
Uses MD5 or SHA-1 checksums or a separate checkpoint database to 
determine the point in the file where file transfer can be resumed. Files 
smaller than \fIbuffer_size_bytes\fR are not checked. 
Use \fBmd5\-force\fR or \fBsha1\-force\fR with small 
files (default: \fByes\fR, i.e. use SHA1 checksums in FIPS mode, 
MD5 checksums otherwise). Use checkpointing when transferring large files 
one by one.
.TP 
\fB\-\-compressions=\fR\fIMETHODS\fR
Sets the allowed compression methods to be offered to the server. 
List the methods in a comma-separated list.

Enter \fBhelp\fR as the value to view the currently supported 
compression methods.
.TP 
\fB\-\-dst\-site=\fR\fIPARAM\fR
Uses the specified site parameters with the destination files.
See the sftpg3 site command
on the \fBsftpg3\fR(1) man page.
.TP 
\fB\-\-exclusive\fR
Defines that a new connection will be opened for each connection 
attempt, otherwise Connection Broker can reuse recently closed connections.
.TP 
\fB\-\-fips\fR
Performs the checksums using the FIPS cryptographic library.
.TP 
\fB\-\-force\-lower\-case\fR
Destination filename will be converted to lowercase 
characters.
.TP 
\fB\-\-hostkey\-algorithms=\fR\fIHOSTKEYALGORITHMS\fR
Sets the allowed host key algorithms to be offered to the server. List 
the host key algorithms in a comma-separated list. For example:

.nf
\-\-hostkey\-algorithms ssh\-dss\-sha224@ssh.com,ssh\-dss\-sha256@ssh.com
.fi

Enter \fBhelp\fR as the value to view the currently supported 
host key algorithms.
.TP 
\fB\-\-overwrite\fR [ \fB=yes\fR | \fBno\fR ]
Selects whether to overwrite existing destination file(s) (default: 
\fByes\fR).
.TP 
\fB\-\-identity=\fR\fIID\fR 
Defines that the ID of the private key is used in user authentication. 
The ID can be Connection Broker-internal ordinary number of the key, the key hash or the key file name.
.TP 
\fB\-\-identity\-key\-hash=\fR\fIID\fR 
Defines the private key used in user authentication with the 
corresponding public key hash.
.TP 
\fB\-\-identity\-key\-id=\fR\fIID\fR 
Defines that the Connection Broker-internal ordinary number of the key is used 
in user authentication.
.TP 
\fB\-\-keep\-alive=\fR\fIVALUE\fR
Defines how often keep-alive messages (non-operation packages) are 
sent to the Secure Shell server. Enter the value as seconds. The default 
value is 0, meaning that keep-alive messages are disabled.
.TP 
\fB\-\-kexs=\fR\fIkexs\fR
Sets the allowed key exchange (KEX) methods to be offered to the server. List the KEX 
names in a comma-separated list. For example:

.nf
\-\-kexs diffie\-hellman\-group14\-sha224@ssh.com,diffie\-hellman\-group14\-sha256@ssh.com
.fi

Enter \fBhelp\fR as the value to view the currently supported 
KEX methods.

All the supported KEXs can operate in the FIPS mode on Linux, Windows, Solaris
and HP-UX Itanium. However, \fBdiffie\-hellman\-group15\-sha256@ssh.com\fR,
\fBdiffie\-hellman\-group15\-sha384@ssh.com\fR, \fBecdh\-sha2\-nistp256\fR,
\fBecdh\-sha2\-nistp384\fR and \fBecdh\-sha2\-nistp521\fR that are supported KEXs, 
cannot operate in the FIPS mode on HP-UX PA-RISC and IBM AIX due to issues in the OpenSSL 
cryptographic library version 0.9.8. 
.TP 
\fB\-\-kip\fR
Defines keyboard-interactive and password as the allowed methods for user authentication;
the same as 

.nf
\-\-allowed\-authentications keyboard\-interactive,password
.fi
.TP 
\fB\-\-macs=\fR\fILIST\fR
Sets the allowed MACs to be offered to the server. List the MAC 
names in a comma-separated list. For example:

.nf
\-\-macs hmac\-sha1\-96,hmac\-md5,hmac\-md5\-96
.fi

Enter \fBhelp\fR as the value to view the currently supported 
MAC names.
.TP 
\fB\-\-password=\fR \fBPASSWORD\fR | \fBfile://\fR \fBPASSWORDFILE\fR | \fBextprog://\fR \fBPROGRAM\fR 
Sets user password that the client will send as a response to password 
authentication. The \fIPASSWORD\fR can be given 
directly as an argument to this option (not recommended). Better 
alternatives are entering a path to a file containing the password 
(\fB\-\-password=file://\fR\fIPASSWORDFILE\fR), 
or entering a path to a program or script that outputs the password 
(\fB\-\-password=extprog://\fR\fIPROGRAM\fR).

When using the \fBextprog://\fR option to refer to a shell 
script, make sure the script also defines the user's shell, and outputs the 
actual password. Otherwise the executed program fails, because it does not 
know what shell to use for the shell script. For example, if the password 
string is defined in a file named \fBmy_password.txt\fR, and 
you want to use the bash shell, include these lines in the script:

.nf
#!/usr/bash
cat /full/pathname/to/my_password.txt
.fi
.RS 
\fBCaution\fR

Supplying the password on the command line is not a secure 
option. For example, in a multi-user environment, the password given 
directly on the command line is trivial to recover from the process table. 
You should set up a more secure way to authenticate. For non-interactive 
batch jobs, it is more secure to use public-key authentication without a 
passphrase, or host-based authentication. At a minimum, use a file or a 
program to supply the password.
.RE
.TP 
\fB\-\-plugin\-path=\fR\fIPATH\fR
Sets plugin path to \fIPATH\fR. This is only used in the FIPS mode.
.TP 
\fB\-\-prefix=\fR\fIPREFIX\fR
Adds a prefix to a filename during the file transfer. The prefix is 
removed after the file has been successfully transferred.

On z/OS, when applied to MVS data set names, the prefix is inserted 
after the High Level Qualifier (HLQ). In case you want the prefix
to be a separate qualifier, include a dot at the end of the prefix:

.nf
\-\-prefix=\fIPREFIX.\fR
.fi
.TP 
\fB\-\-src\-site=\fR\fIPARAM\fR
Uses the specified site parameters with the source files. 
See the site command
on the \fBsftpg3\fR(1) man page.
.TP 
\fB\-\-statistics\fR [ \fB=no\fR | \fByes\fR | \fBsimple\fR ]
.RS 
\fBNote\fR

In release 6.1.5, the behavior of the \fB\-\-statistics\fR 
option has changed and the \fB\-\-statistics\-format\fR option has 
been removed. Instead of them, use the new \fB\-\-summary\-display\fR 
and \fB\-\-summary\-format\fR options.
.RE

The \fB\-\-statistics\fR option chooses the style of the 
statistics to be shown after a file transfer operation. Note that 
\fB\-\-statistics\fR and \fB\-\-summary\-display\fR must 
not be used together.

The \fB\-\-statistics\fR option takes the following values:

\fBno\fR - no statistics will be created.

\fByes\fR - shows a progress bar during the file transfer.
This is the default. An example of the output:

.nf
scpg3 \-\-statistics="yes" sourcefile destinationfile
sourcefile                 |  127MB |  42.9MiB/s | TOC: 00:00:03 | 100%
.fi

\fBsimple\fR - simple one-line statistics will be 
displayed after the file transfer has ended. For example:

.nf
scpg3 \-\-statistics=simple sourcefile destinationfile
sourcefile   | 127MB | 151.3MiB/s | TOC: 00:00:00 | 100%
.fi
.TP 
\fB\-\-summary\-display\fR [ \fB=no\fR | \fByes\fR | \fBsimple\fR | \fBbytes\fR ]
Chooses the style of the file transfer summary data to be displayed 
after a file transfer operation. With the summary display, the progress
bar data is also displayed by default.

Note that \fB\-\-summary\-display\fR 
and \fB\-\-statistics\fR must not be used together.

The \fB\-\-summary\-display\fR option takes the following values:

\fBno\fR - no summary data will be created. 
This is the default.

\fByes\fR - detailed summary data will be created. 
You can configure the contents with the \fBsummary\-format\fR 
option. 
By default, the following contents are displayed in the summary:

.nf
Default settings:                    Render for example this:
"Source: %c:%g\\n"                    user@host1#22:/path/to/source/file
"Source parameters: %e\\n"            X=TEXT, C=ISO8859\-1,D=IBM.1047
"Destination: %C:%G\\n"               user@host2#22:/path/to/destination/file
"Destination parameters: %E\\n"       NONE
"File size: %s bytes\\n"              123456 bytes
"Transferred: %t bytes\\n"            123456 bytes
"Rate: %RB/s\\n"                      345kiB/s
"Start: %xy\-%xt\-%xd %xh:%xm:%xs\\n"   2010\-01\-26 13:10:56
"Stop: %Xy\-%Xt\-%Xd %Xh:%Xm:%Xs\\n"    2010\-01\-26 13:23:30
"Time: %y\\n"                         00:12:34
.fi

\fBsimple\fR - simple one-line summary will be 
displayed. For example:

.nf
scpg3 \-\-summary\-display=simple sourcefile destinationfile
sourcefile | 127MB | 151.3MiB/s | TOC: 00:00:00 | 100%
.fi

\fBbytes\fR - basic statistics reporting the transferred 
bytes will be displayed. For example:

.nf
scpg3 \-\-summary\-display=bytes sourcefile destinationfile
Transferred 12915145984 bytes, file: 'sourcefile' \-> 'destinationfile'
.fi
.TP 
\fB\-\-summary\-format= \fR\fIFORMAT_STRING\fR
Chooses the format and the contents of the summary. 
You can use this option when \fB\-\-summary\-display=yes\fR. 
Do not use this option with \fB\-\-statistics\fR.

Select the contents for the summary using the following definitions:

.nf
%c  \- source connection: user@host#port or profile
%C  \- destination connection: user@host#port or profile
%D* \- current date
%e  \- source parameters (file transfer and data set parameters)
%E  \- destination parameters (file transfer and data set parameters)
%f  \- source file name
%F  \- destination file name
%g  \- /path/to/source/file
%G  \- /path/to/destination/file
%k  \- compression done ("zlib" or "none")
%p  \- transfer percentage
%q  \- transfer rate in bit/s
%Q  \- transfer rate as "XXyb/s" (b/s, kib/s, Mib/s, Gib/s)
%r  \- transfer rate in bytes/s
%R  \- transfer rate as "XXyB/s" (B/s, kiB/s, MiB/s, GiB/s)
%s  \- file size in bytes
%S  \- file size as "XXyB" (B, kiB, MiB or GiB)
%t  \- transfer size in bytes
%T  \- transfer size as "XXyB" (B, kiB, MiB or GiB)
%x* \- start date
%X* \- end date
%y  \- elapsed time
%Y  \- time remaining
%z  \- ETA or TOC, if transfer has finished
%Z  \- string "ETA" or "TOC", if transfer has finished

Where * is one of the following:

h \- hours (00\-23)
m \- minutes (00\-59)
s \- seconds (00\-59)
f \- milliseconds (0\-999)
d \- day of the month (1\-31)
t \- month (1\-12)
y \- year (1970\-)

Other special characters in format strings are:

\\n \- line feed
\\r \- carriage return
\\t \- horizontal tab
\\\\ \- backslash
.fi
.TP 
\fB\-\-progress\-display\fR [ \fB=no\fR | \fBbar\fR | \fBline\fR ]
Chooses the mode of displaying the progress during a file transfer 
operation. The default is \fBbar\fR, which shows a progress 
bar. Option \fBline\fR shows the progress information according 
to the settings made in the \fB\-\-progress\-line\-format\fR 
option.

Do not use this option with \fB\-\-statistics\fR.
.TP 
\fB\-\-progress\-line\-format=\fR\fIFORMAT_STRING\fR
Chooses what information will be shown on the progress line. 
You can use this option when \fB\-\-progress\-display=line\fR.

Do not use this option with \fB\-\-statistics\fR.

Select the contents for the progress line using the definitions
described for command: \fB\-\-summary\-format\fR
.TP 
\fB\-\-progress\-line\-interval=\fR\fIseconds\fR
Defines how often the progress information is updated in line mode. 
The interval is given in seconds, and the default is 60 seconds. 

Do not use this option with \fB\-\-statistics\fR.
.TP 
\fB\-\-streaming\fR [ \fB=yes\fR | \fBno\fR | \fBforce\fR | \fBext\fR ]
Uses streaming in file transfer, if server supports it. Files 
smaller than \fIbuffer_size_bytes\fR are not transferred
using streaming. Use \fBforce\fR with small files. 
Default: \fByes\fR

Use \fBext\fR with z/OS hosts to enable direct MVS data set 
access. Use this option only when the file transfer is mainly used for 
mainframe data set transfers, as it can slow down the transfer of small files 
in other environments. 

The \fB\-\-streaming=ext\fR option requires also the 
\fB\-\-checksum=no\fR option, because if checksums are calculated, 
the file transfer uses staging, which excludes streaming.
.TP 
\fB\-\-sunique\fR
Stores files with unique names. In case more than 
one of the transferred files have the same name, this feature adds a 
sequential number to the end of the repeated file name, for example: 
\fBfile.name\fR, \fBfile.name1\fR, and 
\fBfile.name2\fR.
.TP 
\fB\-\-tcp\-connect\-timeout=\fR\fIVALUE\fR
Defines a timeout period (in seconds) for establishing a TCP connection
to the Secure Shell server. Enter the timeout value as a positive number. 
Value 0 (zero) disables this feature and the default system TCP timeout will 
be used, instead.
.TP 
\fB\-\-user=\fR\fIUSERNAME\fR
Logs in using this user name if the
user name is not provided in the address string.
.TP 
\fB\-V, \-\-version\fR
Displays program version and exits.
.TP 
\fB\-h, \-\-help, \-?\fR
Displays a short summary of command-line options and exits.
.SH "FILENAME SUPPORT"
Different operating systems allow different character sets in 
filenames. On Unix, some of the special characters are allowed in filenames, 
but on Windows, the following characters are not allowed:
.PP
.nf
\\/ : * ? " < > |
.fi
.PP
When you use the scpg3 command to copy files with 
special characters (for example \fBunixfilename*?".txt\fR) from a 
Unix server to Windows, you need to provide the files with new 
names that are acceptable on Windows. Enter the commands in the following format:
.PP
.nf
$ scpg3 \fIuser@unixserver:"unixfilename~*~?\\".txt" windowsfilename.txt\fR
.fi
.PP
The general rule is to follow your platform specific syntax when you 
enter filenames containing special characters as arguments to the 
scpg3 command.
.PP
Tectia fully supports filenames containing only ASCII characters. 
Filenames containing characters from other character sets are not guaranteed to work.
.SS "USING WILDCARDS"
The scpg3 command supports \fB*\fR and \fB?\fR 
as wildcards.
.PP
The wildcards can be used both on the remote and the local side in the commands. 
The following example command will copy all text files (\fB*.txt\fR) 
from all subdirectories of directory \fBdir2\fR 
whose names begin with the prefix \fBdata\-\fR 
into the current local directory ( . ):
.PP
.nf
$ scpg3 \-r \fIuser@server\fR:"dir2/data\-*/*.txt" .
.fi
.PP
Note that on Unix, the characters * and 
? can appear also in the filenames. So it is necessary to use escape 
characters to distinguish the wildcards from the characters belonging to a filename. 
.SS "ESCAPING SPECIAL CHARACTERS"
Some special characters that are used in filenames in different 
operating system, may have a special meaning in the Tectia commands. Note 
also that the meaning can be different in various parts of the file 
transfer system.
.PP
In the scpg3 command, the following characters 
have a special meaning, and they need to be escaped in commands that 
take filenames as arguments:
.PP
* asterisk is a wildcard for any number of any characters
.PP
? question mark is a wildcard for any single character
.PP
"" quotation marks placed around strings that are to be taken 'as is'
.PP
\\ backslash is an escape character on Unix
.PP
~ tilde is an escape character on Windows.
.PP
The escape character tells the scpg3 command to 
treat the next character "as is" and not to assume any special meaning for 
it. The escape character is selected according to the operating system of the local 
machine. 
.PP
Note that the \\ and ~ characters are special 
characters themselves, and if they are present in the filename, escape 
characters must be placed in front of them, too. Therefore, if you need to 
enter a filename containing \\ in Unix or ~ in 
Windows to the scpg3 command, add the relevant escape 
character to it:
.PP
\\\\ on Unix
.PP
~~ on Windows
.PP
See the examples below to learn how the escape characters are used in 
the Tectia scpg3 command, and how to enter filenames 
with special characters in different operating systems.
.TP 
Examples of filenames in the scpg3 command:
The following filenames are valid in Unix, but they need escape 
characters in the commands:

.nf
file|name.txt 
file\-"name".txt 
file?name.txt 
file*name.txt 
file\\name.txt 
file \- name.txt 
file~name.txt 
.fi
When using the scpg3 command on Unix, in 
certain cases several escape characters are needed, as they escape one 
another. Enter the above mentioned filenames in the following 
formats:

.nf
file\\|name.txt     or  "file|name.txt" 
file\-\\"name\\".txt 
file\\\\\\?name.txt   or  "file\\?name.txt" 
file\\\\\\*name.txt   or  "file\\*name.txt" 
file\\\\\\\\name.txt   or  "file\\\\\\name.txt" 
file\\ \-\\ name.txt  or  "file \- name.txt" 
file~name.txt 
.fi

Example commands on Unix:

.nf
$ scpg3 \fIuser@server\fR:file\\\\\\*name.txt .
.fi

.nf
$ scpg3 \fIuser@server\fR:file\\ \-\\ name.txt .
.fi
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
scpg3 uses the following environment variables:
.TP 
SSH_SFTP_CHECKSUM_MODE\fB=yes|no|md5|sha1|md5\-force|sha1\-force|checkpoint\fR
Defines the setting for comparing checksums.
For more information, see the description of the \fBchecksum\fR element on the
\fBssh-broker-config\fR(5)
man page.
.TP 
SSH_SFTP_SHOW_BYTE_COUNT\fB=yes|no\fR
If this variable is set to \fByes\fR, the number of 
transferred bytes is shown after successful file transfer. Also the names of 
source and destination files are shown. The default is \fBno\fR. 
.TP 
SSH_SFTP_STATISTICS\fB=yes|no|simple\fR
If this variable is set to \fByes\fR (default), normal 
progress bar is shown while transferring the file. If it is set to 
\fBno\fR, progress bar is not shown. If it is set to 
\fBsimple\fR file transfer statistics are shown after the file 
has been transferred.
.SH "EXIT VALUES"
scpg3 returns the following values based on the 
result of the operation:
.PP
.nf
0     Operation was successful. 
1     Internal error. 
2     Connection aborted by the user.
3     Destination is not a directory, but a directory was specified by the user. 
4     Connecting to the host failed. 
5     Connection lost. 
6     File does not exist. 
7     No permission to access file. 
8     Undetermined error from sshfilexfer.
11    Some non\-fatal errors occured during a directory operation.
101   Wrong command\-line arguments specified by the user. 
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
Copy files from your local system to a remote Unix system:
.PP
.nf
$ scpg3 localfile user@remotehost:/dst/dir/
.fi
.PP
Copy files from your local system to a remote Windows system:
.PP
.nf
$ scpg3 localfile user@remotehost:/C:/dst/dir/
.fi
.PP
Copy files from a remote system to your local disk:
.PP
.nf
$ scpg3 user@remotehost:/src/dir/srcfile /dst/dir/dstfile
.fi
.PP
Copy files from one remote system to another using connection profiles 
defined in the \fBssh\-broker\-config.xml\fR file:
.PP
.nf
$ scpg3 profile1:/src/dir/srcfile profile2:/dst/dir/dstfile
.fi
.SH AUTHORS
SSH Communications Security Corporation
.PP
For more information, see http://www.ssh.com.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBssh-broker-g3\fR(1), 
\fBssh-broker-config\fR(5), 
\fBsshg3\fR(1), 
\fBsftpg3\fR(1), 
\fBrcp\fR(1)
