.TH ssh-cmpclient-g3 1 "16 June 2017"  
.SH NAME
ssh-cmpclient-g3 \- CMP enrollment client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
ssh\-cmpclient\-g3 command [options] access [name]

Where command is one of the following:

     INITIALIZE psk|racerts keypair template
     ENROLL certs|racerts keypair template
     UPDATE certs [keypair]
     POLL psk|certs|racerts id

     RECOVER psk|certs|racerts template
     REVOKE psk|certs|racerts template
     
     TUNNEL racerts template

Most commands can accept the following options:
     \-B            Perform key backup for subject keys.
     \-o prefix     Save result into files with given prefix.
     \-O filename   Save the result into the specified file. 
                   If there is more than one result file, 
                   the remaining results are rejected.
     \-C file       CA certificate from this file.
     \-S url        Use this SOCKS server to access the CA.
     \-H url        Use this HTTP proxy to access the CA.
     \-E            PoP by encryption (CA certificate needed).
     \-v num        Protocol version 1|2 of the CA platform. Default is 2.
     \-y            Non\-interactive mode. All questions answered with 'y'.
     \-N file       Specifies a file to stir to the random pool.
     \-d level      Set debug level.
     \-Z provspec   Specifies external key provider for the private key.
                   The format of provspec is "providername:initstring".
     

The following identifiers are used to specify options:
     psk      \-p refnum:key (reference number and pre\-shared key)
              \-p file (containing refnum:key)
              \-i number (iteration count, default 1024)
     certs    \-c file (certificate file) \-k url (private\-key URL) 
     racerts  \-R file (RA certificate file) \-k url (RA private\-key URL)
     keypair  \-P url (private\-key URL)
     id       \-I number (polling ID)
     template \-T file (certificate template)
              \-s subject\-ldap[;type=value]
              \-u key\-usage\-name[;key\-usage\-name]
              \-U extended\-key\-usage\-name[;extended\-key\-usage\-name]
     access   URL where the CA listens for requests.
     name     LDAP name for the issuing CA (if \-C is not given).

Key URLs are either valid external key paths or in the format:
     "generate://savetype:passphrase@keytype:size/save\-file\-prefix"
     "file://passphrase/relative\-key\-file\-path"
     "file:relative\-key\-file\-path"
     "any\-key\-file\-path"

The key generation "savetype" can be:
 \- ssh2, secsh2, secsh (Secure Shell 2 key type)
 \- ssh1, secsh1 (legacy Secure Shell 1 key type)
 \- pkcs1 (PKCS #1 format)
 \- pkcs8s (passphrase\-protected PKCS #8, "shrouded PKCS #8")
 \- pkcs8 (plain\-text PKCS #8)
 \- x509 (Tectia\-proprietary X.509 library key type)

     \-h Prints usage message.
     \-F Prints key usage extension and keytype instructions.
     \-e Prints command\-line examples.
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The ssh\-cmpclient\-g3 command-line tool is a 
certificate enrollment client that uses the CMP protocol. It can generate an 
RSA or DSA public-key pair and get certificates for their public components. 
CMP is specified by the IETF PKIX Working Group for certificate life-cycle 
management, and is supported by some CA platforms, such as RSA Keon.
.SH COMMANDS
The ssh\-cmpclient\-g3 command-line command keywords are listed below. 
Shorthands longer than three letters can be used to identify the 
command. The commands are case-insensitive. The user must specify the CA 
address URL for each command. Here the term "user" refers to a user, program, 
or hardware device.
.TP 
\fBINITIALIZE\fR
Requests the user's initial certificate. The request is 
authenticated using the reference number and the corresponding key 
(PSK) received from the CA or RA using some out-of-band mechanism. 

The user must specify the PSK, the asymmetric key pair, and a 
subject name.
.TP 
\fBENROLL\fR
Requests a new certificate when the user already has a valid 
certificate for the key. This request is similar to 
initialize except that it is authenticated using 
public-key methods.
.TP 
\fBPOLL\fR
Polls for a certificate when a request was not immediately 
accepted. 
.TP 
\fBUPDATE\fR
Requests an update of an existing certificate (replacement). The 
issued certificate will be similar to the existing certificate (names, 
flags, and other extensions). The user can change the key, and the 
validity times are updated by the CA. This request is authenticated by 
a valid existing key pair and a certificate.
.TP 
\fBRECOVER\fR
Requests recovery of a backed-up key. This request is 
authenticated either by PSK-based or certificate-based authentication. 
The template describes the certificate whose private key has already 
been backed up and should be recovered. Users can only recover keys 
they have backed up themselves.
.TP 
\fBREVOKE\fR
Requests revocation for a key specified in the template. 
Authentication of the request is made using a PSK or a certificate 
belonging to the same user as the subject of revocation.
.TP 
\fBTUNNEL\fR
Operates in RA tunnel mode. Reads requests and optionally 
modifies the subject name, alternative names, and extensions based on 
the command line. Approves the request and sends it to the CA.
.SH OPTIONS
The ssh\-cmpclient\-g3 command-line options are listed below. Note 
that when a file name is specified, an existing file with the same name 
will be overwritten. When specifying subject names or other strings that contain spaces, enclose 
them in quotation marks ("").
.TP 
\fB\-B\fR
Requests private key backup to be performed for the initialize, 
enroll, and update commands.
.TP 
\fB\-o \fR\fIprefix\fR
Saves resulting certificates and CRLs into files with the given 
\fIprefix\fR. The prefix is first appended by a number, followed by the file 
extension .crt or .crl, depending on the type of object.
.TP 
\fB\-O \fR\fIfilename\fR
Saves the result into the specified absolute filename. If there 
is more than one result file, the remaining results are 
rejected.
.TP 
\fB\-C \fR\fIfile\fR
Specifies the file path that contains the CA certificate. If key 
backup is done, the file name must be given, but in most cases the 
LDAP name of the CA can be given instead.
.TP 
\fB\-S \fR\fIurl\fR
Specifies the SOCKS URL if the CA is located behind a SOCKS-
enabled firewall. The format of the URL is: 
socks://[username@]server[:port][/network/bits[,network/bits]]
.TP 
\fB\-H \fR\fIurl\fR
Uses the given HTTP proxy server to access the CA. The format of 
the URL is: http://server[:port]/
.TP 
\fB\-E\fR
Performs encryption proof of possession if the CA supports it. 
In this method of PoP, the request is not signed, but instead the PoP 
is established based on the ability to decrypt the certificates 
received from the CA. The CA encrypts the certificates with the user's 
public key before sending them to the user.
.TP 
\fB\-v \fR\fInum\fR
Selects the CMP protocol version. This is either value 1, for an 
RFC 2510-based protocol, or 2 (the default) for CMPv2.
.TP 
\fB\-N \fR\fIfile\fR
Specifies a file to be used as an entropy source during key generation.
.TP 
\fB\-d \fR\fIlevel\fR
Sets the debug level string to \fIlevel\fR.
.TP 
\fB\-Z \fR\fIprovspec\fR
Specifies the external key provider for the private key. Give 
\fIprovspec\fR in the format 
\fI"providername:initstring"\fR.
.PP
The usage line uses the following meta commands:
.TP 
\fBpsk\fR
The reference number and the corresponding key value given by the CA 
or RA.
.RS 
.TP 
\fB\-p \fR\fIrefnum:key|file\fR
refnum and key are character strings 
shared among the CA and the user. refnum identifies the 
secret key used to authenticate the message. The 
refnum string must not contain colon characters. 

Alternatively, a filename containing the reference number and 
the key can be given as the argument.
.TP 
\fB\-i \fR\fInumber\fR
number indicates the key hashing iteration count.
.RE
.TP 
\fBcerts\fR
The user's existing key and certificate for authentication.
.RS 
.TP 
\fB\-k \fR\fIurl\fR
URL specifying the private key location. This is an external 
key URL whose format is specified in \fBssh-cmpclient-g3\fR(1).
.TP 
\fB\-c \fR\fIfile\fR
Path to the file that contains the certificate issued to the 
public key given in the \fB\-k\fR option argument.
.RE
.TP 
\fBracerts\fR
In RA mode, the RA key and certificate for authentication.
.RS 
.TP 
\fB\-k \fR\fIurl\fR
URL specifying the private key location. This is an external 
key URL whose format is specified in \fBssh-cmpclient-g3\fR(1).
.TP 
\fB\-R \fR\fIfile\fR
Path to the file that contains the RA certificate issued to 
the public key given in the \fB\-k\fR option 
argument.
.RE
.TP 
\fBkeypair\fR
The subject key pair to be certified.
.RS 
.TP 
\fB\-P \fR\fIurl\fR
URL specifying the private key location. This is an external 
key URL whose format is specified in \fBssh-cmpclient-g3\fR(1).
.RE
.TP 
\fBid\fR
Polling ID used if the PKI action is left pending.
.RS 
.TP 
\fB\-I\fR \fInumber\fR
Polling transaction ID \fInumber\fR given by the RA or 
CA if the action is left pending. 
.RE
.TP 
\fBtemplate\fR
The subject name and flags to be certified.
.RS 
.TP 
\fB\-T \fR\fIfile\fR
The file containing the certificate used as the template for 
the operation. Values used to identify the subject are read from 
this, but the user can overwrite the key, key-usage flags, or 
subject names.
.TP 
\fB\-s \fR\fIsubject-ldap[;type=value]*\fR
A subject name in reverse LDAP format, that is, the most 
general component first, and alternative subject names. The name 
subject-ldap will be copied into the request verbatim. 

A typical choice would be a DN in the format 
"C=US,O=SSH,CN=Some Body", but in principle this can be 
anything that is usable for the resulting certificate. 

The possible type values are ip, 
email, dn, dns, 
uri, and rid.
.TP 
\fB\-u \fR\fIkey-usage-name[;key-usage-name]*\fR
Requested key usage purpose code. The following codes are 
recognized: digitalSignature, 
nonRepudiation, keyEncipherment, 
dataEncipherment, keyAgreement, 
keyCertSign, cRLSign, 
encipherOnly, decipherOnly, and 
help. The special keyword help lists the supported key 
usages which are defined in RFC 3280.
.TP 
\fB\-U \fR\fIextended-key-usage-name[;extended-key-usage-name]*\fR
Requested extended key usage code. The following codes, in 
addition to user-specified dotted OID values are recognized: 
serverAuth, clientAuth, 
codeSigning, emailProtection, 
timeStamping, ikeIntermediate, and 
smartCardLogon.
.RE
.TP 
\fBaccess\fR
Specifies the CA address in URL format. Possible access 
methods are HTTP (http://host:port/path), or plain TCP 
(tcp://host:port/path). If the host address is an IPv6 
address, it must be enclosed in square brackets (http://[IPv6-address]:port/). 
.TP 
\fBname\fR
Optionally specifies the destination CA name for the operation, 
in case a CA certificate was not given using the option \fB\-C\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "INITIAL CERTIFICATE ENROLLMENT"
This example provides commands for enrolling an initial certificate for 
digital signature use. It generates a private key into a PKCS #8 plaintext file named 
initial.prv, and stores the enrolled certificate into file 
initial-0.crt. The user is authenticated to the CA with the key 
identifier (refnum) 62154 and the key ssh. The subject 
name and alternative IP address are given, as well as key-usage flags. 
The CA address is pki.ssh.com, the port 8080, and the CA name 
to access Test CA 1.
.PP
.nf
$ ssh\-cmpclient\-g3 INITIALIZE \\
   \-P generate://pkcs8@rsa:2048/initial \-o initial \\
   \-p 62154:ssh \\
   \-s 'C=FI,O=SSH,CN=Example/initial;IP=1.2.3.4' \\
   \-u digitalsignature \\
   http://pki.ssh.com:8080/pkix/ \\
   'C=FI, O=SSH Communications Security Corp, CN=SSH Test CA 1 No Liabilities'
.fi
.PP
As a response the command presents the issued certificate to the 
user, and the user accepts it by typing yes at the prompt.
.PP
.nf
Certificate =
  SubjectName = <C=FI, O=SSH, CN=Example/initial>
  IssuerName = <C=FI, O=SSH Communications Security Corp, 
    CN=SSH Test CA 1 No Liabilities>
  SerialNumber= 8017690
  SignatureAlgorithm = rsa\-pkcs1\-sha1
  Validity = ...
  PublicKeyInfo = ...
  Extensions =
      Viewing specific name types = IP = 1.2.3.4
    KeyUsage = DigitalSignature
    CRLDistributionPoints = ...
    AuthorityKeyID =
      KeyID = 3d:cb:be:20:64:49:16:1d:88:b7:98:67:93:f0:5d:42:81:2e:bd:0c
    SubjectKeyID =
      KeyId = 6c:f4:0e:ba:b9:ef:44:37:db:ad:1f:fc:46:e0:25:9f:c8:ce:cb:da
  Fingerprints =
    MD5 = b7:6d:5b:4d:e0:94:d1:1f:ec:ca:c2:ed:68:ac:bf:56
    SHA\-1 = 4f:de:73:db:ff:e8:7d:42:c4:7d:e1:79:1f:20:43:71:2f:81:ff:fa

Do you accept the certificate above? yes

.fi
.SS "KEY UPDATE"
Before the certificate expires, a new certificate with updated validity 
period should be enrolled. ssh\-cmpclient\-g3 supports key update, 
where a new private key is generated and the key update request is 
authenticated with the old (still valid) certificate. The old 
certificate is also used as a template for issuing the new certificate, 
so the identity of the user will not be changed during the key update. 
With the following command you can update the key pair, which was 
enrolled in the previous example. Presenting the resulting certificate has 
been left out.
.PP
.nf
$ ssh\-cmpclient\-g3 UPDATE \\
   \-k initial.prv \-c initial\-0.crt \-P \\
   generate://pkcs8@rsa:2048/updatedcert \-o updatedcert \\
   http://pki.ssh.com:8080/pkix/ \\
   "C=FI, O=SSH Communications Security Corp, CN=SSH Test CA 1 No Liabilities"
.fi
.PP
The new key pair can be found in the files with the updatedcert 
prefix. The policy of the issuing CA needs to also allow automatic key 
updates if ssh\-cmpclient\-g3 is used in the UPDATE mode. 
.SH AUTHORS
SSH Communications Security Corporation
.PP
For more information, see http://www.ssh.com.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBssh-certview-g3\fR(1),
\fBssh-scepclient-g3\fR(1) 
