.TH ssh-broker-ctl 1 "16 June 2017"  
.SH NAME
ssh-broker-ctl \- Tectia Connection Broker control utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
\fBssh\-broker\-ctl\fR \kx
.if (\nxu > (\n(.lu / 2)) .nr x (\n(.lu / 5)
'in \n(.iu+\nxu
\fBcommand\fR 
.br
[\fBoptions\fR]\&...
'in \n(.iu-\nxu
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
ssh\-broker\-ctl
is a control
utility for the Connection Broker (ssh\-broker\-g3). It can be used, for example, to view
the status of the Connection Broker, to reconfigure or stop the Connection Broker, to manage keys and certificates,
and to manage connections.
.SH OPTIONS
The following general options are available:
.TP 
\fB\-a, \-\-broker\-address \fR\fIADDRESS\fR
Defines an address to a separate Tectia Connection Broker process to which a connection is
made.

The same effect can be achieved by defining a Connection Broker address with environment
variable \fBSSH_SECSH_BROKER\fR.
.RS 
\fBTip\fR

If you are running ssh\-broker\-ctl using a userID other than
that of the ssh\-broker\-g3 process owner, the \fB\-a\fR
option must be given so that ssh\-broker\-ctl knows where to connect.
In this case, you must also run ssh\-broker\-ctl as a privileged user
(root).

For example, when user \fISSHBRKR\fR owns the
ssh\-broker\-g3 process, run the ssh\-broker\-ctl
with commands:

.nf
# ssh\-broker\-ctl \-a /tmp/ssh\-SSHBRKR/ssh\-broker status \-s
# ssh\-broker\-ctl \-a /tmp/ssh\-SSHBRKR/ssh\-broker status \-\-pid
# ssh\-broker\-ctl \-a /tmp/ssh\-SSHBRKR/ssh\-broker list\-connections
.fi
.RE
.TP 
\fB\-D, \-\-debug \fR\fISTR\fR
Defines the debug level.
.TP 
\fB\-e, \-\-charset=\fR\fICS\fR
Defines the character set to be used in the output. The supported character sets are
\fButf8\fR, \fBiso\-8895\-1\fR, \fBlatin1\fR,
\fBiso\-8859\-15\fR, \fBlatin9\fR, and
\fBascii\fR.
.TP 
\fB\-q, \-\-quiet \fR
Defines that little or no output is to be displayed, depending on the
command.
.TP 
\fB\-s, \-\-short\fR
Defines that a shorter, more machine readable, output format is to be used.
.TP 
\fB\-\-time\-format=\fR\fIFMT\fR
Defines the time format to be used in the output. The default depends on the system
locale settings.
.TP 
\fB\-v, \-\-verbose \fR
Defines that more information, if available, is to be output.
.TP 
\fB\-V, \-\-version\fR
Displays the version string.
.TP 
\fB\-w, \-\-wide \fR
Defines that the output will not be truncated, even if it means long lines.
.TP 
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
Displays a context-sensitive help text on command-line options. Help is available
also on specific commands. For example, to get help on the \fBstatus\fR
command, run:

.nf
$ ssh\-broker\-ctl status \-\-help
.fi
.SH COMMANDS
.RS 
\fBNote\fR
.PP
For a detailed description of the command options, use the command-specific
\fB\-\-help\fR option.
.RE
.PP
ssh\-broker\-ctl accepts the following commands:
.TP 
\fBadd\-certificate\fR [\fBoptions\fR] \fB<certificate\-file>\fR 
Adds the given X.509 sub-CA certificate to the Connection Broker certificate cache. The
certificate can be used in certificate validations but it is not stored permanently.
Restarting the Connection Broker will remove the certificate. 
.TP 
\fBadd\-crl\fR [\fBoptions\fR] \fB<crl\-file>\fR 
Adds the given X.509 CRL to the Connection Broker CRL cache. The CRL can be used in certificate
validations but it is not stored permanently. Restarting the Connection Broker will remove the CRL.
.TP 
\fBadd\-key\fR \fBfilename\fR 
Adds a new private key from the given file name. The private key is not stored
permanently in the configuration. Stopping the Connection Broker will remove the key.
.TP 
\fBadd\-provider\fR \fBtype\fR \fBparameter\fR 
Registers a key provider to the Connection Broker. The \fBtype\fR option is one of
the supported provider types and the \fBparameter\fR option is a parameter
string specific to the provider type. 

For a list of the supported key provider types and the corresponding parameter
formats, use the command-specific \fB\-\-help\fR option.
.TP 
\fBauth\-handler\fR [\fBoptions\fR] 
Registers itself as the default authentication form handler. All authentication
prompts for clients that are unable to handle them (mostly SOCKS proxy and other
tunnels) are directed to this client. 

For a list of the supported key provider types and the corresponding parameter
formats, use the command-specific \fB\-\-help\fR option.
.TP 
\fBclose\-channel\fR \fBchannel\-id ...\fR 
Closes the defined channel. You can also enter multiple channel-IDs to close several
channels. 
.TP 
\fBclose\-connection\fR \fBconnection\-id ...\fR 
Closes the defined connection. You can also enter multiple connection-IDs to close
several connections.
.TP 
\fBclose\-tunnel\-listener\fR \fBtunnel\-id ...\fR 
Closes open tunnel listener. Tunnel id is either the id number returned by
ssh\-broker\-ctl list\-tunnel\-listeners command or a listen address
and port pair separated by a colon. If the listen address is omitted, local listeners
(127.0.0.1) are selected. As an example, the following command closes the listener with
id 7, and the ones listening at 168.192.0.15 port 1234 and 127.0.0.1 port 2112:

.nf
$ ssh\-broker\-ctl ctl 7 168.192.0.15:1234 :2112
.fi
.TP 
\fBconfig\-value\fR [\fBoptions\fR] \fBpath\fR 
Retrieves configuration values from the Connection Broker based on the defined path and displays
them.
.TP 
\fBconnection\-status\fR [\fB\-\-show\-channels\fR] [\fB\-\-write\-hostkey=\fR \fBFILE\fR] \fBconnection\-id \fR
Displays a detailed connection status for the connection ID (the numeric identifier
shown by the list\-connections) command.
.TP 
\fBconnector\fR [\fBoptions\fR] [\fBenable|disable\fR] 
Enables and disables the Connector functionality in the Connection Broker. Without parameters
prints the current state.
.TP 
\fBdisconnect\-client\fR \fBclient\-id\fR 
Disconnects a Connection Broker client process.
.TP 
\fBdebug\fR [\fB\-\-append\fR] [\fB\-\-clear\fR] [\fB\-\-log\-file=\fR \fBfile\fR] [\fB\-\-monitor\fR] [\fB\-\-protocol\-dump\fR] [\fBdebug\-level\fR] 
Sets the Connection Broker debug level to the defined level. If no \fBdebug\-level\fR
parameter is given here, the current debug level is not changed.
.TP 
\fBkeylog\fR [\fB\-\-remove\fR] [\fB\-\-all\fR] [\fB\-\-update\fR \fB<key\-id|key\-hash>\fR] [\fB\-\-init\fR] [\fB\-\-uninit\fR] [\fB\-\-close\fR] [\fB\-v, \-\-verbose\fR] [\fBkey\-id|key\-hash|hostname\fR] 
Keylog is used to manage uploaded public keys and to display a log of them. The
Keylog does not store the public keys, it only stores information about the keys and the
hosts where the keys have been uploaded to. The information can be used to manage the
keys at a later stage, for example, to track hosts where a key has been uploaded to. The
keylog is not on by default, it must be enabled first.

Without the options, displays a list of the uploaded keys. If a key or a hostname is
specified, only the selected keys are displayed.
.TP 
\fBkey\-passphrase\fR [\fB\-\-all\fR] [\fB\-\-clear\fR] [\fB\-\-passphrase\-file=\fR \fBfilename\fR] [\fB\-\-passphrase\-string=\fR \fBpassphrase\fR] [\fBkey\-id|key\-hash\fR] 
Prompts the user's private-key passphrase or PIN code.
.TP 
\fBkey\-upload\fR [\fBoptions\fR] \fBkey\fR [\fBuser\fR@] \fBserver\fR [\fB#port\fR] 
Uploads the selected key (\fBkey\fR can be a key ID number, a public key
hash or a file name) into the authorized keys directory or file on the server, depending
on the automatically detected upload method. After the operation, the key can be used in
public-key authencation to log in to the server without a password. If the keylog is
enabled, the command prompts for a keylog passphrase (if needed), and information about
the public keys is stored in the key upload log.
.TP 
\fBlist\-connections\fR [\fB\-c, \-\-show\-channels\fR] [\fB\-s, \-\-short\fR] [\fB\-\-client\-pid=\fR \fBPID\fR] [\fB\-\-disconnected\fR] 
Displays a list of the currently open connections together with connection
parameters and traffic statistics. Displays also the connection ID which can used with
other commands to identify the connection.
.TP 
\fBlist\-channels\fR [\fB\-s, \-\-short\fR] 
Displays a list of the currently open connection channels, together with channel
type and traffic statistics. Displays also the channel ID which is used by other
commands to identify the connection.
.TP 
\fBlist\-clients\fR [\fB\-c, \-\-show\-channels\fR] [\fB\-s, \-\-short\fR] [\fB\-\-all\fR] 
Displays a list of the currently connected client processes.
.TP 
\fBlist\-keys\fR [\fB\-s, \-\-short\fR] [\fB\-\-extra certificates\fR] [\fB\-\-provider=\fR \fBID\fR] 
Displays a list of the user's private keys, together with the basic key attributes
such as the key type, size, and possible file name or key provider information. Outputs
also the fingerprint and the identifier of the key. The identifier is used by other
Connection Broker commands to identify the private key.
.TP 
\fBlist\-profiles\fR [\fB\-s, \-\-short\fR] [\fB\-v, \-\-verbose\fR] [\fB name ...\fR] 
Displays a list of connection profiles in the Connection Broker. Shows the profile name and
basic connection settings, such as the host and the user name. If profile names are
given, only those profiles are listed.
.TP 
\fBlist\-providers\fR [\fB provider ...\fR] 
Displays a list of the key providers in the Connection Broker. If one or more provider names or
ID numbers are given, only those providers will be listed. The provider name can be
either a full provider name or a prefix.
.TP 
\fBlist\-tunnel\-listeners\fR [\fBoptions\fR]
Displays a list of the currently active tunnel listeners (also called port
forwards).
.TP 
\fBopen\-tunnel\-listener\fR [\fBoptions\fR] \fBlisten\-port\fR [\fBuser\fR@] \fBserver\fR [#\fBport\fR] [\fBdst\-host\fR] [\fBdst\-port\fR] 
Opens a tunnel listener, similar to sshg3
\fB\-L\fR and \fB\-R\fR options. The difference is that
ssh\-broker\-ctl will exit after the tunnel is opened. The tunnel
status can be viewed with ssh\-broker\-ctl list\-tunnel\-listeners
command and the tunnel can be closed with ssh\-broker\-ctl
close\-tunnel\-listener command.

In local mode (default), the listener is opened to localhost listen-port. All
connections will be tunneled through server and from there to the final destination
address and port. Tunnel types \fBsocks\fR and \fBsocks\-proxy\fR
do not require destination information as it will be obtained from SOCKS client. Tunnel
types \fBtcp\fR, \fBftp\fR and \fBlocal\fR require
destination information.
.TP 
\fBpkcs10\-sign\fR [\fBoptions\fR] \fBkey\-id\fR [\fBsubject\-name\fR] 
Signs a PKCS#10 certificate request with the given key. The
\fBkey\-id\fR can be either a key id or a key hash. The subject name
parameter is required unless the \fBtemplate\fR option is used. If the
subject name is not a valid distinguished name, it will be wrapped automatically into a
common name component. For example, a subject name string \fBMy Name\fR will
be converted to \fBCN=My Name\fR. 
.TP 
\fBprobe\-key\fR [\fBoptions\fR] \fBaddress#port\fR 
Probes for a Secure Shell server hostkey. Connects to the given address and port
(defaults to 22) and displays the server's public key or certificate.
.TP 
\fBreload\fR 
Rereads the Connection Broker configuration file.
.TP 
\fBremove\-key\fR [\fBoptions\fR] \fBkey\-id\fR 
Removes a private key permanently.
.TP 
\fBremove\-provider\fR [\fB\-\-all\fR] \fBprovider\-id\fR 
Removes a key provider from the Connection Broker.
.TP 
\fBstart\fR 
Starts the Connection Broker in daemon mode if it is not already running.
.TP 
\fBstart\-gui\fR 
Starts the Connection Broker GUI process unless it is already running.
.TP 
\fBstatus\fR [\fB\-s, \-\-short\fR] [\fB\-q, \-\-quiet\fR] [\fB\-\-pid\fR] [\fB\-\-all\fR] 
Without parameters, displays short statistics and a configuration summary for the
currently running Connection Broker process.
.TP 
\fBstop\fR 
Stops the Connection Broker.
.TP 
\fBvalidate\-certificate\fR [\fBoptions\fR] \fB<certificate\-file>\fR 
Validates the given X.509 certificate. If a host name is given, also checks if the
certificate would be accepted as a host certificate for the host.
.TP 
\fBview\-key\fR [\fB\-s, \-\-short\fR] [\fB\-v, \-\-verbose\fR] [\fB\-\-clear\fR] [\fB\-\-write\-key=\fR \fBfile\fR] \fBkey\-id \fR
Displays information on the defined key. If the key has certificates, a short
summary of them is also shown.
.SH AUTHORS
SSH Communications Security Corporation
.PP
For more information, see http://www.ssh.com.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBssh-broker-g3\fR(1),
\fBssh-broker-config\fR(5)
