.TH ssh-server-ctl 8 "16 June 2017"  
.SH NAME
ssh-server-ctl \- Tectia Server control utility.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
\fBssh\-server\-ctl\fR \kx
.if (\nxu > (\n(.lu / 2)) .nr x (\n(.lu / 5)
'in \n(.iu+\nxu
[\fBoptions\fR] [\fBcommand\fR
[\fBcommand\-options\fR]]
'in \n(.iu-\nxu
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
ssh\-server\-ctl
is a control
utility that can be used to start, stop, or reload the configuration of Tectia Server
(ssh\-server\-g3). It can also be used to add new servants or to stop
servants, to check the status of the server and to pause the server. 
.RS 
\fBNote\fR
.PP
ssh\-server\-ctl
must be run as
a privileged user (root).
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are available:
.TP 
\fB\-C, \-\-current\fR 
Connects to the current server.
.TP 
\fB\-D, \-\-debug=\fR\fILEVEL\fR 
Defines the debug level.
.TP 
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR 
Displays the help text for the command.
.TP 
\fB\-l, \-\-listen=\fR\fIPORT\fR 
Same as the \fBport\fR option.
.TP 
\fB\-O, \-\-old\fR 
Connects to the backup listener.
.TP 
\fB\-P, \-\-pid \fR\fIPID\fR 
Targets the command to the ssh\-server\-g3 process identified with
the given \fIPID\fR. Available on Unix only.
.TP 
\fB\-p, \-\-port \fR\fIPORT\fR 
Targets the command to the ssh\-server\-g3 process running on the
given \fIPORT\fR. The default port 22 is assumed if this option is
not used.
.TP 
\fB\-\-server\-address\fR 
The path to the server control socket.
.TP 
\fB\-q, \-\-quiet\fR 
Displays little or no output depending on the command.
.TP 
\fB\-s, \-\-short\fR 
Displays a shorter more machine readable output.
.TP 
\fB\-v, \-\-verbose\fR 
Displays more information if it is available.
.TP 
\fB\-V, \-\-version\fR 
Displays the version string.
.SH COMMANDS
ssh\-server\-ctl 
accepts the following commands:
.TP 
\fBadd\-servant\fR 
Start a new servant or new servants.

Options:
.RS 
.TP 
\fBnum\fR 
Defines the number of servants to be started.
.RE
.TP 
\fBcontinue\fR 
Continue a previously paused service.
.TP 
\fBpause\fR 
Pause the service. Existing connections continue to function, but new connections
will not be accepted until the continue command has been
given.
.TP 
\fBpid\fR 
Prints the server process ID.
.TP 
\fBreload\fR 
Causes the server process to reload its configuration. The configuration is read
from the \fBssh\-server\-config.xml\fR file. Existing connections stay open
using the old configuration and the new connections will use the new
configuration.
.TP 
\fBstart\fR 
Attempts to start the server process by executing
ssh\-server\-g3.

The \fBstart\fR command will check if there is a server process currently
running; if yes, the tool will report the case and will not make any starting
attempts.

Options:
.RS 
.TP 
\fB\-p, \-\-port \fR\fIPORT\fR 
Start the server on an alternate port (the default port is 22).
.TP 
\fB\-f, \-\-config\-file \fR\fIFILE\fR 
Uses the given file as a configuration.
.RE
.TP 
\fBstatus\fR 
When the server is running, this command outputs the following information:
.RS 
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
Server status and process ID
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
Date and time of starting the server
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
Cryptographic mode
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
Address family type
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
Path to the server control socket
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
Number of successful reconfigurations
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
Date and time of the last reconfiguration (if applicable)
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
Number of connections received
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
Number of servants
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
Preferred number of servants
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
Maximum number of servants
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
Maximum number of connections per servant
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
Total number of connections after which servants are retired
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
Status of load control (enabled/disabled)
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
Maximum size for the server's white list
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
Discard limit for the server's white list 
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
Additionally, for each servant:
.RS 
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
Process ID
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
Status
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
Number of connections, unauthenticated connections, and channels
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
All-time total number of connections
.RE
.RE
.TP 
\fBstop\fR 
Causes the server process to start shutting down. The \fBstop\fR command
checks if there is a server process currently running; if not, the tool will report the
case and will not make any stopping attempts.

On AIX, if an error occurs when the server is stopped by using
ssh\-server\-ctl stop, it falls back to stop the server process
directly. 

Options:
.RS 
.TP 
\fB\-F, \-\-force\fR 
Forcefully disconnects connections to shut down the server quicker. The
\fBforce\fR option should be given with the initial
stop command.
.RE
.TP 
\fBstop\-servant\fR \fBid ...\fR 
Causes the server to stop servants specified by their ID numbers. You can use a
space-separated list to enter several IDs.
.TP 
\fBview\-white\-list\fR 
Prints the IP addresses on the server's white list in reverse chronological order.
The white list is a list of IP addresses of connections that have recently had a
successful authentication. (For more information, see 
\fBload\-control\fR in \fBssh-server-config\fR(5).) 
.SH AUTHORS
SSH Communications Security Corporation
.PP
For more information, see http://www.ssh.com.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBssh-server-g3\fR(8),
\fBssh-server-config\fR(5)
