.TH ssh-troubleshoot 8 "16 June 2017"  
.SH NAME
ssh-troubleshoot \- tool for collecting system information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
\fBssh\-troubleshoot\fR \kx
.if (\nxu > (\n(.lu / 2)) .nr x (\n(.lu / 5)
'in \n(.iu+\nxu
[\fBoptions\fR] [\fBcommand\fR
[\fBcommand\-options\fR]
]
'in \n(.iu-\nxu
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
ssh\-troubleshoot 
is a tool for collecting information on the operating system (its version, 
patches, configuration settings, installed software components, and the 
current environment and state) and on the Tectia installation (installed 
product components and versions, their state, and the global and 
user-specific configurations).
.PP
The collected information will be stored in a file named
\fBssh_troubleshoot_<host>_<date>_<time>.tar\fR 
\&.
Send the file to the SSH technical support for analysis to help in 
troubleshooting situations.
.PP
To get all necessary information, run the command as an administrator, 
because it might need root access to some directories.
.SH OPTIONS
Enter each option separately, they cannot be combined. 
The following options are available:
.TP 
\fB\-d, \-\-debug \fR\fILEVEL\fR
Sets the debug level string to \fILEVEL\fR.
.TP 
\fB\-k, \-\-keep\-going\fR
Defines that the data collecting is continued as long as possible, 
even after errors are encountered.
.TP 
\fB\-o, \-\-output \fR\fIFILENAME\fR
Defines a non-default output file for storing the collected data.

If \fIFILENAME\fR is '\fB\-\fR', the 
collected data is added to the standard output. The default output file is 
created in a temporary archive directory and stored as 
\fBssh\-troubleshoot\-data\-<hostname>\-<timestamp>.tar\fR. 
The timestamp is in format: \fByyyymmdd\-hhmmUTC\fR.
.TP 
\fB\-u, \-\-user \fR\fIUSERNAME\fR
Defines another user for the info command, the 
default is the current user. This affects the home directory from which 
the user-specific Tectia configuration files are fetched. 
.TP 
\fB\-q, \-\-quiet \fR
Suppresses detailed reporting about the command progress, reports only errors.
.TP 
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
Displays this help text.
.SH COMMANDS
ssh\-troubleshoot accepts the following command:
.TP 
\fBinfo\fR 
Gathers information about the system configuration. 
The collected data will be stored as a \fBtar\fR
file.

Options:
.RS 
.TP 
\fB\-\-include\-private\-keys\fR
Collects everything from the specified user's configuration directories,
including the private keys. By default, the private keys nor unrecognized 
files are not included in the result data.
.RE
.SH AUTHORS
SSH Communications Security Corporation
.PP
For more information, see http://www.ssh.com.
